Boox ΙΙ.

ΤΗΕ NATURE OF THINGS.

297

The dashing surge is rob’d in dazzling white,

This mayst thou fathom hence, and prove precise

Why, oft though black‚ from combinations new

Of its primordial atoms, added these,

780

And those withdrawn, oft, too, the deep should wear

A vest contrasted, whit'ning to the day.

But were its primal atoms ting’d themselves

Black, or but blue, concussion ne'er could change

The fixt result3 nor turn the black or blue

785

To the pure polish of the marble bust.

Nor urge from seeds of varying tints‚ perchance,

Springs, when combin’d‚ the main's resplendent face 3

As in the cube mechanic many a shape

Diverse unites to rear its frame complete.

790

For as the keen sight in the cube surveys

Those varying figures, so the splendid deep,

sharks‚ would certainly have saved me from the
trouble of new-modelling the work of the good M.
Ozanam.

“ There is scarcely a sea, tn which the phaenomenon
of this light is not sometimes observed; but there
are certain parts where it is much more luminous
than in others. In general, it is more so in warrn
munti-ies, and between the tropics, than any where
else; it is remarkably luminous on the coasts of
Guyana, in the environs of the Cape Verd Islands,
near the Maldives and the coasts of Malabar, where,
according to M. Godehen de Riville, it exhibits a
spectacle very much like that above described.

‘¹ Aphaenomenon so surprising could not fail to ex-

Vot„ Ι.

 

cite the attention of philosophers; but till lately
they confined themselves to vague explanations;
they ascribed it to sulphur, to nitre‚ and other
things, of which there is not a single atom in the
sea, and they then imagined that they had reasoned
well.”

The causes assigned for these luminous appearances
by the Doctor himself, are phosphoric matter, pro-
duced in the sea, which hence becomes luminons by
agitation‚ and a vast multitude of luminous insects
floating over its surface. Both these facts have been
sufficiently ascertained; but something else seems
still wanting to account for such curious phaeno.
mena.

(ω

