lxxii THE LIFE OF LUCRETIUS.

Atheniaus ι “ whom, therefore,” says he, “ ye ignorantly worship, him
declare I unto you ‘¹³1² It was about a century before St. Paul's visit
to Athens, that Lucretius was studying in the same seat of philosophy
ancl superstition ; and, as there cau be little doubt that this altar was
at that time in existence, it is no extravagant conjecture that our poet
himself had repeatedly notieed it, and had its inscription iu his re· '
collection when composing the passage before us.

It is absurd, therefore, to eontend, that either Epicurus or his dis-
eiples were systematic atheists, since their precepts and practice, the
writings both of themselves and their antagonists, establish a contrary
position. It has again been said that whatever may hare been their
opinion respecting a Supreme Intelligence, they never believed him to
have been coneerned in the creation of the universe, which they ex-

pressly (leclarcd to have sprung from the fortuitous concurrence of in-
sensible atoms, and hence to have been the mere result of blind and
brutal chance.

Old as is the date of such an assei-tion, and widely as it has been
circulated in every age, it appears to me to wandel* as remotely from
the truth as the defamation I have just examined. I doubt much
whether, if minutely analyzed, this ever were, or ever could be, the
opinion of any philosopher, or of any philosophie school in the world.
Of all the atomio teachers, Democritus appears to have approached
nearest to such a position: yet, even Democritus himself did not con-
tend that all atoms were insensible, and, consequently, that there was
no intelligence whatever manifested in the creation of the world. His
elementary corpuscles were divided into two classes, the ‚intelligent
and the non-intelligent, the power governing, and the power governed ς
and he contended, that it was by the common consultation and re-

* Acts, xvii. 23.

