Boon I.

THE NATURE OF THINGS.

Decays: and the thick pressure of the crowd, ⁴

Incessant passing, wears the stone-pav’d street,

E’en the gigantic forms of solid brass,

360

Plac’d at our portast, from the frequent touch

Of devotees and strangers, now display

The right hand lesscn’d of its proper bulk.-

All lose, we view, by friction, their extent3

Bur, in what time, What particles they lose,

365

This envious nature from our view conceals.

Thus, too, both time and nature give to things

A gradual growth: but never yet the sight

hat gradual growth explor'd3 nor mark'd their fall,

Stiss gradual too, by age, or sure decay:

370

Nor trac’d what portions of incumbent rock,

Loaded wlth brine, the caustic wave dissolves.—

So fine the particles that form the world.

Yet not corporcal is the whole produc'd

And yet the Baron de Coutures is not satisfied with
this common interpretation3 and, in the true spirit
of Fre-<ch gallantry, translates it thus: “and even
‘⁶ the brass kn 2ckers affixed to the gates of our gran·
‘⁴ dees are worn by the hands of those who pass by,
‘⁶ or who enter to pay them their respects.” Et les
marteaux d’airain qui sont aux portes des grands, se
trouvent enfin nsez par les mains de ceux qui passent
ou qui viennent faire leur cour.

Superstition, as to its more prominent features, is
the same in all ages: and what Lucretius recor-ds as

the practice of Rome in his era, is the practice in the

same city at the present moment: the object of reli-
gious vem-ration alone having been changed. For the
bronze statue of St. Peter, in the celebrated church
that bears his name, has at this honr, its advanced
foot under which the pope daily places his head, ob-
viously marked and worn bright from the frequency
of the kisses impressed upon it by the multitudes of
devotees who throng towards it, from all quarters,
sor a benediction. The same superstitious affection
was evinced towards the statue of Serapis-3 and still
continues to be exhibited by the Siamese, in the wor=
ship of their chief idol.

