298

DE RERUM NATURA.

Lm. ΙΙ.

Aut alio in quo vis uno puroque nitore,

Dissimileis longe inter se variosque colores.

Praeterea, nihil obficiunt, obstantque, figurae

Dissimiles, quo quadratum minus omne sit extra:

At varici rerum inpediunt prohibentque colores,

785

Quo minus esse uno possit res tota nitore.

Tum porro, quae ducit et inlicit, ut tribuamus

Principiis rerum non numquam, caussa, colores,

Obcidit ; ex albis quoniam non alba creantur,

Nec, quae nigra cluent, de nigris 3 sed variis de.

790

Quippe et enim multo proclivius exorientur

Candida, de nullo, quam nigro, nata colore3

Aut alio quo vis, qui contra pugnet, et obstet.

Praeterea, quoniam nequeunt sine luce colores

Esse, neque in lucem existunt primordia rerum3

Ver. 801. Thongh, doubfflw, wlvilfflows rather from
the want

] It does not ap-

pear that Lucretius himself was perfectly acquainted

with the origin, either of the white or black hues of

bodies : for he seems to imagine that these were

produced in the precise manner of all other colours :

Of each existent tincture,

 

nor was either of them satisfactorily accounted for
till the time of Sir Isaac Newton, whose experiments
upon this subject are clear and demonstrative.
From these experiments it follows, that no ray, or
even particle of light, is issued from the sun, or any
other luminous body, unpossessed of some one of the
primax-y colours enumerated in the note on ver. 754,
The rays of light, or the particles of which those
rays are· composed, never are nor ever can be colour-
less, and by this mean produce a white hue: the

795

phaenomenon of white, resulting from adue intermix-
ture of au the differently coloured rays which the
sun, or any other luminous body transmits. As these
are perpetually blended together in the atmosphere‚
the atmosphere and the light itself appear white, or
colourless. But such white or colourless beams,
whenever separated by a prism, or other refracting
substance‚into distinct rays, immediately evince them-
selves to be compound bodies, and disclose the seven
colours of violet, indigo, blue, green, yeHow, orange,
and red. This is a fact, which no man would be
disposed to credit, if it were not too obvious to be
disputed: so totally contrary is it to what reason
could expect (Ephori, that such deep and full colours
as blue, green, and red, should be necessary to the
productiori of white. And yet there are modes of
proving this, without analyzing the light itsclf. For

