166

DE RERUM NATURA.

Lm. Ι.

Principiis rerum spatium tempusque fuga'i

Largiri, ut possint a coetu libera ferri.

Qus re etiam atque etiam suboriri multa necesse est:

Et tamen, ut plagae quoque possint subpetere ipsae,

Infinita opus est vis undique materia's.

1050

Illud in hiis rebus longe fuge credere, Memmi,

 

Ver. 1112. Butjij, O Mfflfflvsnfly the sect de-
cei‘v’d,] The Stoics, who unisormly con-
tended for the spherical figure of the earth and
planets‚ contended‚ at the same time, for the sphe-
rical figure of the universe itself3 and, indeed, ap-
pear to have advanced the spherical figure of the
universe as a reason why the stars and planets should
partake of a similar configuration; believing that
the sarne kind of gravitation existed through the
universe at large, which they contended did exist
throughout individual planets'3 by which the uni-
verse was kept in perpetual action, and the earth,
and every other orb, was continually tending towards
one common centre. then asked how it occurred,
allowing this to be a fact, that the particles of earth,
water, and air, atu-acted by such common centre,
did not fly off from their own proper orbits, and,
passing through the vacuum of space, approach that
centre‚ and rest there, to the total subversion of
order, and the regeneration of chaos? they replied,
that such would assuredly be the effect, were it not
for a certain elastic or contractile power possessed by
the atmosphere of every orb, which compresses its
particles together, and thus prevents such a disso-
lution. This atmosphere, or elastic ether, is deno-
minated by Ennius, Virgil‚ and Manilius, as well as
by our own poet, moenia mundi, or “ the walls of
the world ;’' the Stoics believing that the world at
large, as well as every orb contained within its cir-
cumference, was surrounded by the same elastic
substance.
This doctrine of the Stoics was strenuously op-
posed by the Epicureans, ou many accounts. For
the latter believed that matter, as well as space, was

infinite ; and that they had no other limit than what
they reciprocally afforded each other. Hence again
they denied a central point in the universe5 for that
which is infinite can have no centre ; and of course,
they denied the existence of central attraction. But
they carried their opposition still farther3 and de—
nied, at the same time, that either the earth ot the
heavcnly bodies were perfectly spherica13 conceiving
the former to approximate gradually, in its lower
regions, to the nature of air, on which it rests, and
of course, that it is totally destitute of antipodal
inhabitants. This doctrine of the Epicureans was
assented to for many ages after the epoch of our
poet, by sages of the highest reputation, both Chris,
tian and anti-christian ς among the former of whom,
indeed, to entertain a different opinion, was to be
guilty of heresy. And, in effect, till the general
laws and principles of gravitation were developed
and understood, 1 question whether there were not
more reason discovered in denying the perfectly sphe-
roidal figure of the earth, and the possibility of an
antipodal habitation, than in contending for such
theon-ies. At least, the objections urged against
them by our poet, and others ofthe same school, are
extremely forcible‚ and must, till the discovery of
the above general principles, have been unanswer-
able. Lucretius has endeavoured to prove, that the
universe is infinite: but, if this be true, there can-
not possibly be a central spot3 for that which is
infinite can have no centre. Yet, allowing a centre‚
whether in the universe, or in the earth, what rea,
son can be assigned for the supposition‚ that bodie

press towards such centre, rather than to any other
part; and that here, and here alone, they lose the

7

